---
layout: post
title: "Day 23"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Quiet Day

Today was quiet due to multiple reasons, and for those reasons, not much progression was made in terms of raw code. 

I have decided on dropping the Uniswap research and work until a project demands it. It does look like an important area to learn, and truly understand what is going on. Especially for use with DEX platforms - however, I will learn it much more efficiently if a project demands it. That way, I can understand it's use case and hopefully join another dev who already has this experience that I can learn from too. Reading documentation is great, and helps me massively, but having hands in usage is just top tier. Hopefully won't be long!

### Planning My Next Few Steps

Something I have noticed a lot of recently on Twitter (best source of internets, I know) is NFT's are going pretty crazy. Everyone is developing and minting randomly generated avatar projects. Think CryptoPunks, but change punks to any other word and you have probably guessed a current existing project. Yesterday's flavour was pickles(?). I personally can't just ape into NFT's because I don't really know the market, or potential value, so risking the asking price of ETH is a bit different that throwing a few hundred $ONE at something. That's not to say I don't believe in the projects, or the developers, I just can't afford to risk at this time!

Something that a lot of these projects seem to have in common is a form of randomly assigning the data to the buyers. So far, I have seen 2 different variations:

- randomly assigns on mint
- mints an 'unknown' object, which then later 'unlocks' the underlying data

I personally prefer the idea of the first one. I like knowing what I've got once I've bought it. Whether it's a car, or an NFT, I want to know my money hasn't just gone. It also gives some immediate feedback that the purchase was worth, rather than letting my head overthink it and start to doubt myself before the project is even live.

Something else I have seen whilst online, was a problem with another project - I won't name it because I don't know enough about it to know whether these are straight facts or not. But apparently, before the avatars were unveiled, people just directly queried the contract to check the underlying metadata (effectively bypassing the time lock) to see the traits and final product before it was 'public.' This is possible as the avatars always existed, they existed way ahead of the actually launch and sales of the NFT's, the smart contract just won't reveal it until a certain block is hit (or some other similar trigger). This lead to people querying the unknown NFT's and buying the super cheap ones knowing they will eventually become pure profit due to their final form. This sounds pretty grim for the buyers and sellers who lost out, but I guess it begs the question "Do people research what they are buying?". I appreciate not everyone has the time, or skill set to dig in. But the price that some of these things can potentially go for, makes me think the due diligence and research could ultimately be a make or break for their project. I hope Solidity and smart contracts become a really easy, common skill for the crypto world, so veterans and newbies to the industry can dig in to a project before throwing money at it. Ultimately, that would help everyone grow and projects would just get more secure, more money and more interest (hopefully).

** I should just quickly note, I don't think any projects are bad. I don't think anyone is doing anything wrong. I don't judge people who buy with researching. These are just personal views, and a hat tip to my anxiety that stops me doing anything risky that would probably result in a lambo - so jokes on me really.

### Randomly Picking Values on Mint (Tomorrow)

Tomorrow, I plan to go over a minting approach that would ultimately result in randomly selecting an object out of a pool of possible objects. It won't be anything fancy - but I want to dig a bit deeper and utilise my randomisation 'research' from day 8. Here I used the keccak256 function to help generate a hash. From there we can run some math to get a value between 0 and N. I will be doing something similar here (I hope), with an actual use case!