---
layout: post
title: "Day 16"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Continuing My ERC721 Development!

Progress has been incredible. Following on from my post yesterday, I have been able to finish implementing the entire base list of features that I had originally planned too:

- Metadata (URI) ERC721 token
- Mintable (within a limited amount)
- Sales Offers (Sell/Buy)
- Auctions (Bid, Accept, Withdraw)
- Withdraw held funds

As I previously state, I was planning to use the [CryptoPunks source code](https://github.com/larvalabs/cryptopunks) as a point of reference to double check all my logic and code flow. As this is a pre-standardised (Open Zeppelin) codebase (or at least to me it appears that way), I have had to loosely use it as reference and ensure heavy googling and documentation usage was utilised throughout dev. From reading some 'scary' posts and twitter threads about Smart Contract attacks (hacks), I have made sure to steer clear from vulnerable patterns I have seen. This isn't me claiming my code is secure and doesn't need auditing, it's merely just me attempting to learn from other people's mistakes (with regards to their code).

### Following the Steps of Moonity

As you may have gathered, I LOVE the Moonity token. If you haven't already, please check out my [page](https://badatblockchain.github.io/tokens/moonity) on here all about the token. It's my own personal take on the token but I have attempted to keep it relatively unbiased and informational, rather than just a quick attempt at shilling.

Anyway, something I truly like about the token is the approach they have to charity from all transactions. Something I have implemented in my ERC721 token smart contract is charity fees. I have added the following list of features in an attempt to have this working feature for every token mint process:

- Charity wallet address
- External charity donation functionality
- Private function that transfers the specified value to the charity wallet
- Chunk of math used to calculate the charity donation from the minting process

I should note... the math I have used to attempt to calculate the donation chunk seems like it will fail. Looking into the documentation, I can't seem to find a suitable approach of performing floating point arithmetic ultimately meaning I can't take donations from anything lower than 100 $ONE. Right? For example, if the mint process was 100 $ONE, with a 5% charity donation would easily be doable with:

```javascript
uint value = msg.value; // 100 $ONE
uint donation = (msg.value / 100) * 5; // == 5 $ONE

payable(_charityAddress).transfer(donation); // send to charity wallet
```

 The above seems fairly straight forward to me and should work nicely providing the 'donation percentage' (in this case is 5%) is a whole number (integer).

However, if minting cost 10 $ONE, and the donation was still 5%, we could result in 0.5 $ONE which would result in the donation actually being 0 $ONE due to the fact any number after the decimal point is just clipped off when casting to integer. (As far as I am aware, this is correct in Solidity).

I need to dig deeper into floating point precision and how to actually do this correctly. Need to dig out the Moonity source code again (pastebin link I spotted in Telegram pre-launch!). I'll report back on a later date and dig into this as I figure it out.

### "Special Minting" Process For the Admin

An additional minting function I added to the smart contract was the ability for the admin role of the contract (the initial deployer) to mint tokens for free. This is possible providing the following two rules are met during the request:

1. The total token count is less than the maximum account. We don't want the admin to be able to exploit the limit and freely mint an infinite amount when the public users can only buy a limited amount altogether.
2. The admin can't exceed a hard set amount. For example, in my case, the admin can mint 10 tokens for free but after that this special minting process becomes relatively useless and will never be usable due to the require() functions in place.

The main thought behind a special minting process is for the use of airdrops, competitions and personal collection. I don't want to be able to mint the first 50 before the public, for example, as this takes away the calculated possibility of any random generation algorithm. Minting the first 50 would change the weightings and ratios for everyone else and the raw calculation statistics would be offset every time. In addition, I love seeing random people on Twitter posting their new mints that are part of the first few of a collection. For example, #001 is likely 'rarer' and 'cooler' than #100. Knowing the owner of the contract has effectively reserved the first % of the collection could ultimately sway people away from the project as it's almost monopolised the potential value and authenticity (not quite, but I hope you get my drift).

The down side to this special minting process is the lack of charity donations that occur. So I need to ensure that the hard limit of special mintable tokens is low to not have an impact on the token authenticity as well as the charity. But at the same time, if I choose to add the charity donation to all buys and sells after they have been minted (similar to the royalties system of DaVinci for example) then it would ultimately catch up if/when these admin owned NFT's are sold. For the time being though, it only exists during the minting process and all proceedings will be stored in a charity owned wallet (probably multi-sig'd (or similar) for community trust building) until a decision is made on the donation. But we are still in the early stages and the project doesn't exist, so this is all just spit balling!