---
layout: post
title: "Day 20"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Today Was My 20th Day of Solidity!

I realise this post has come out a couple of days after the actual day of work. My IRL schedule is becoming busier again so I am planning on keeping these post short and sweet compared to previous ones but I hope to still bring valid content and help any who reads this, as well as keep a track of solid references and "cheat sheets" for myself.

Today I focused my studies on the [TokenJenny](https://tokenjenny.one/) moon token contract which can be found on their [Github](https://github.com/shimmyshine/Token-Jenny-Public/blob/main/Contracts/MoonCoin.sol). 

TokenJenny comes across in a similar fashion to [ript.io](https://ript.io/) in that a user can create and mint their own token by simply filling out a couple of form fields. I personally haven't minted one on here yet, but I'm pretty tempted to release something super meme-y, with no intention other than education and study the process from 0 to public. If anything comes of it, cool, let's all lambo, if not... then the least I will gain is some knowledge!

The source itself doesn't appear to be 'launch ready' from the CLI, as there are no truffle files, no test files, etc. But that's part of the fun I can have as a developer to make sure it's all okay to push.

There are a few areas of this contract that I don't quite understand as of yet, and these are going on my list of 'todos' for when I have some time to deep dive into a new area. These are:

- IUniswapV2Factory
- IUniswapV2Pair
- IUniswapV2Router01
- IUniswapV2Router02

Once I have read about the above, I will be digging into this specific code to fully understand what it is. Why it's needed and how it should be deployed:

```javascript
IUniswapV2Router02 _uniswapV2Router = IUniswapV2Router02(uniV2RouterAddress_);
uniswapV2Pair = IUniswapV2Factory(_uniswapV2Router.factory()).createPair(address(this), _uniswapV2Router.WETH());
uniswapV2Router = _uniswapV2Router;
```