---
layout: post
title: "Day 21"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Another Peek at Token Jenny's Contracts

Similar to day 20, I spent my time today studying another contract on the [TokenJenny](https://tokenjenny.one/) Github repository. This time, I looked at the [source](https://github.com/shimmyshine/Token-Jenny-Public/blob/main/Contracts/HardCapToken.sol) for the hard cap token.

The main difference I can quickly notice is the lack of all the UniSwap contracts and interfaces with the main contract itself. 

Based on the declaration, the contract appears to be a pretty standard ERC20 token:

```
contract ERC20 is Context, IERC20, IERC20Metadata
```

As previously discussed, ERC20 is the standard for a currency token. This class inherits the following:

- [Context](https://github.com/shimmyshine/Token-Jenny-Public/blob/main/Contracts/Context.sol)
  - The context contract wraps some global variables within internal functions. I don't believe this has any benefit other than standardising the way this data should be called, but ultimately it just returns the data that is otherwise accessible directly from the 'msg' object. In this case, two functions exist to access the sender's address and the data sent
- [IERC20](https://github.com/shimmyshine/Token-Jenny-Public/blob/main/Contracts/IERC20.sol)
  - As previously discussed, a range of specific functions are expected to exist within an ERC20 for easy portability and implementation within 3rd party platforms and Dapps. This interface is where all these functions are declared. Here we have our common requirements such as transfer, burn, transferFrom, balanceOf (etc).
- [IERC20Metadata](https://github.com/shimmyshine/Token-Jenny-Public/blob/main/Contracts/IERC20Metadata.sol)
  - I haven't come across the contract properly whilst studying on other contracts. This appears to be an optional interface that simply inherits some functionality to return commonly requested data such as the token name, decimal and symbol. These are then implemented correctly with their function body within the token contract.

Apart from the above, the contract seems super simple. A hard limit is set during deployment/constructor time of the contract and move can be minted freely by the owner, providing the total supply has not yet met the hard limit.

```javascript
function mint(address account, uint256 amount) public virtual returns(bool) {
	require(msg.sender == _owner, "ERC20: Must be the owner to execute mint");
	_mint(account, amount);
}
```

I know this sort of functionality has raised flags in communities and projects I am invested in to. Allowing the owner to manually mint tokens could be seen as a no no. Especially if they claim to have a hard cap of say x-million tokens, and then they have the freedom to actually mint y-million altogether. This would be a bad thing to see in a contract that I have invested in and, to be honest, I'd probably cash out before anything goes wrong. However, in THIS case, the mint function does have this nice little rule in place:

```javascript
function _mint(address account, uint256 amount) internal virtual {
    require(account != address(0), "ERC20: mint to the zero address");
    require(amount <= _availableSupply, "ERC20: cannot mint more than available");

    _beforeTokenTransfer(address(0), account, amount);

    _circSupply += amount;
    _availableSupply = _totalSupply - _circSupply;
    _balances[account] += amount;
	emit Transfer(address(0), account, amount);
}
```

As can be seen above, the _availableSupply state variable represents the remaining amount of tokens that can be minted (also updated further down in this function as well as in the constructor). The amount to be 'minted' has to be less than the value of the _availableSupply at the time of the mint request, otherwise it will fail. This immediately gives the auditor/invester/casual reader/me a bit more faith that when the devs/owners state that there is a hard limit of x-million, then they mean it.

An important note to make about this token, is the logic I read in the burn function below:

```javascript
function _burn(address account, uint256 amount) internal virtual {
    require(account != address(0), "ERC20: burn from the zero address");
    require(account == msg.sender, "ERC20: You cannot burn other wallets");

    _beforeTokenTransfer(account, address(0), amount);

    uint256 accountBalance = _balances[account];
    require(accountBalance >= amount, "ERC20: burn amount exceeds balance");
    _balances[account] = accountBalance - amount;
    _totalSupply -= amount;
    _circSupply -= amount;
    _availableSupply = _totalSupply - _circSupply;

    emit Transfer(account, address(0), amount);
}
```

So, as can be seen here, an internal function that allows a user to burn their own funds. Interesting functionality, I personally wouldn't set fire to my pension but each to their own. (Yes, I know, it can be used for tokenomics, transfer tax, etc. But still.)

Looking at the function logic above, once an amount of tokens has been burnt, the _availableSupply value is recalculated relative to the burnt tokens. So, although this contract is deployed as a hard cap token - the hard cap is actually... a temporary hard cap? Naturally, when I think of 'caps' I think of the ceiling value, and that correlates here correctly. The 'ceiling' is set to the total supply during deployment. If someone decided to burn 10% of that total supply (some odd whales be lurking everywhere) then the total supply would be recalculated, resulting in the circulating supply being recalculated (as the burnt tokens will be already owned out in the wild) and finally altering the available supply. So the hard cap, has now been changed.

```
_totalSupply = 1000000;
_circSupply = 500000;
_availableSupply = 500000; // _totalSupply - _circSupply;

// ...
// burn 100000
// ...

_totalSupply = 900000; // 1000000 - 100000
_circSupply = 400000; // 500000 - 100000
_availableSupply = 500000;
```

So, that was a terrible example because the available supply was still the same... that's embarrassing. But, hopefully it's easy to see where I was going with regards to the hard cap token actually being a soft cap, providing we see the cap as a value that can only ever go down. In this case, cap == ceiling.