---
layout: post
title: "Day 11"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Pretty Relaxed Day Today

Today was a fairly relaxed day with regards to hands on coding. I spent a chunk of time reading through [LootSwap](https://github.com/LootSwap/lootswap-contracts/tree/main/contracts) and [ViperSwap](https://github.com/VenomProtocol/venomswap-contracts) contracts. Although LootSwap forked Viper, I have been going through and loosely comparing them to see what is changed, where it's changed and attempt to understand why they were changed or what these changes would have resulted in. As I am really enjoying the whole DEX and yield farm side of my current Harmony holdings - further understanding the smart contacts and apps that handle these is a huge want by my brain.

### Looooooooping

An extremely common part of programming is using loops to prevent the need for writing hard coded logic, with repetitive code. When it comes to Solidity, again, I just assumed you couldn't do stuff like this. But again, my username screams truth and I am once again proven wrong by the power of this technology. The following snippet shows a nice simple loop that calls a function to obtain a random hash (taken from my post from day 8).

```javascript
function randomValue(uint i) public view returns (bytes32) {
	return keccak256(abi.encodePacked(msg.sender, uint2str(i), block.timestamp));
}

// in logic function body
    uint _count = 10;
    for (uint i = 0; i < _count; i++) {
		uint256 val = uint256(randomValue(i));
        // do something with val
    }
```

I purely recorded this usage because I know that I will be using loops throughout my experience with Solidity, unless there are better ways to do this. I already have a problem in my head regarding gas prices and naturally the longer the loop, the more computation time required resulting in higher costs. I do believe this would have been acknowledged by the wider community already and precautions or optimisations are out there (I just need to find them). Although pointless, I wanted to simply just create the same logic I had in my test files within day 8, but purely on-chain.

There is a function used above that has not been referenced else where throughout my post or days of progress. This is the uint2str function which has been included below. I came across this method of performing this cast/conversion on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47129173/how-to-convert-uint-to-string-in-solidity). Apparently this one will not work with Solidity 0.8.0 (and higher), however for my personal use case - I seemed to work perfectly!

```javascript
function uint2str(uint _i) internal pure returns (string memory _uintAsString) {
    if (_i == 0) {
    	return "0";
    }
    
    uint j = _i;
    uint len;
    while (j != 0) {
    	len++;
    	j /= 10;
    }
    
    bytes memory bstr = new bytes(len);
    uint k = len - 1;
    
    while (_i != 0) {
    	bstr[k--] = byte(uint8(48 + _i % 10));
    	_i /= 10;
    }
    
    return string(bstr);
}
```

No new code to upload today, I have been messing around in a sandbox project that I don't plan to release to the world because of the amount of laziness and issues. However if I can record any helpful snippets then in theory the project should be public, just extremely regulated and controlled (the opposite to blockchain, heh).