---
javasclayout: post
title: "Day 9"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Starting Off With Some Web3 (again)

Following on from my web3 work yesterday, I decided to carry on with my little tool and attempt to extend it a little further. The primary goal was to somehow retrieve the current price of $LOOT in USD. I had a couple of thoughts initially:

1.  Can I scrape the LootSwap website and grab the div that holds the price value?
2. Is there a contract I can just talk to directly for the exchange rate?
3. Is there an existing graph that already does this that I can leverage?

Skipping my entire thought process, failures and attempts (although very valuable for personal learning, not very exciting) I resulted in using option number 3. A hero of the Harmony community, Gydo, has been flying through some community tooling and hosting graphs for a range of coins. Recently, the LOOT [graph](https://loot.charting.one/) went live and this was a perfect start for my tool!

Knowing how websites work underneath the prettiness, I was quickly able to find a URL that gathers the data used by the frontend:

```
https://loot.charting.one/api/exchange-rates/loot_one
```

The data received by the browser (on a timed interval based on analysis) includes the following:

```json
{
  "tokens": {
    "input": "LOOT",
    "output": "ONE"
  },
  "rates": {
    "buy_rate": "12.204800"
  },
  "price_changes": {
    "hour": {
      "buy_rate": "13.768800000000000000000000",
      "percentage": 11.36,
      "direction": "negative",
      "percentage_format": "<span class=\"price-change-arrow\">&#9660;</span>11.36%"
    },
    "day": {
      "buy_rate": "14.343900000000000000000000",
      "percentage": 14.91,
      "direction": "negative",
      "percentage_format": "<span class=\"price-change-arrow\">&#9660;</span>14.91%"
    },
    "week": {
      "buy_rate": null,
      "percentage": null,
      "direction": null,
      "percentage_format": null
    }
  },
  "marketcap": "$6,102,400,000"
}
```

As can be seen above, the buy_rate value within the rates field gives us a perfect starting point. Now, what I must note here is that the value here is actually represented in $ONE, rather than USD. This isn't exactly a problem but it does mean I need to perform an additional set of data gathering to attempt to get a fairly accurate representation of the USD price of $LOOT.

Knowing I could easily obtain this information, I created a new async function in my node project and added the following to the function body:

```javascript
await axios.get('https://loot.charting.one/api/exchange-rates/loot_one')
    .then((response) => {
        var jsonObj = response.data;
        priceInOne = jsonObj["rates"]["buy_rate"];
        console.log("$LOOT:$ONE => 1:" + priceInOne);
});
```

Note, the priceInOne variable was declared outside of this callback but within the scope of the function.

I made sure not to abuse this endpoint as the server is not owned by me, and put it on an interval of 30 seconds. Everytime I successfully get a value, I write it to a file for future use. Possibly graphing of my own, data analysis, trend analysis, whatever I want.

The next step was to somehow convert this value into USD. My planned process was relatively simple, but I'm not entirely sure if it would be accurate. Nevertheless, here is my proposed solution:

1. Use a free, public API such as CoinGecko to obtain information about $ONE
2. Ensure that I can get the USD value of $ONE via this endpoint
3. Once obtained, divide the already obtained $LOOT value by the dollar value of $ONE

Theoretically, this will give me a fairly up to date price of $LOOT. The downside is, I am merging 2 different data sources that are completely out of my control to attempt to calculate the price. I wouldn't recommended doing this to calculate prices within a bot and apeing in to a token just because it says it's below. It might help with arbitrage across different DEX platforms but again, it won't be perfect so be careful and do your own due diligence before parting with any cash or tokens!

ANYWAY. CoinGecko was most certainly a saviour. After reading through the [API documentation](https://www.coingecko.com/api/documentations/v3) I found the perfect endpoint to get me the required data. As I am focusing on the $ONE token, I could gather data about Harmony directly:

```
https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3/coins/harmony
```

This endpoint gathered a wealth of information, but due to the length, I have just taken a snippet of the whole JSON body to show below. Specifically, we area that I care about the most:

```json
<...snipped...>
"market_data": {
    "current_price": {
        "aed":0.394697,
        "ars":10.19,
        <...snipped...>
        "twd":2.98,
        "uah":2.94,
        "usd":0.107453,
        "vef":0.01075929,
        "vnd":2489.29,
<...snipped...>
```

From the snippet above, it's definitely obvious what I am aiming for. But just in case you can't see it:

```
market_data -> current_price -> usd
```

Perfect. So now I was able to get hold of the USD value for $ONE via a single GET request:

```javascript
await axios.get('https://api.coingecko.com/api/v3/coins/harmony')
    .then((response) => {
        var jsonObj = response.data;
        priceOfOneUsd = jsonObj["market_data"]["current_price"]["usd"];
        console.log("$ONE:USD => 1:$" + priceOfOneUsd);
});
```

Note, similar to before I have declared the priceOfOneUsd variable outside of the callback but within the scope of the same function.

Now that I have both sources of data required, I simply perform the following calculation to get hold of the USD value of $LOOT:

```javascript
var lootInUsd = priceInOne * priceOfOneUsd;
console.log("$LOOT:USD => 1:$" + lootInUsd);
```

This is exactly what I wanted from my script for today! The output doesn't look very pretty so I won't post a screenshot but take yesterdays screenshot and basically just add the console.log() snippets above and that's about it. The only final tweak I did was take the lootInUsd variable value, store in in a global/script wide variable and used this to calculate a USD reward per block in my previously defined table. This equation was as simple as:

```javascript
if (lastKnownLootValUSD > 0.0) {
    rewardPerBlockUSD = (rewardPerBlock * multiplier) * lastKnownLootValUSD;
} else {
    rewardPerBlockUSD = "N/A";
}
```

Again, this won't be perfect but it probably won't be too far off.

### Why No Solidity?! This #100daysofcode is a Ruse!

Wrong. Well, correct (sort of), but mainly wrong. Everything I am doing is complimenting my Solidity knowledge and my overall use of smart contracts. Each obstacle I am coming across is forcing me to research how it works and how it looks from a dev perspective. I truly miss developing full time, nowadays I don't get to do it in my current job, but it's definitely something I want to get back into, maybe even full time again! But I will see how it goes. For now, this is enough to keep my brain ticking over and my progress moving forward.

Today I cloned the Harmony-One [NFT Store](https://github.com/harmony-one/nft-store) GitHub as I want to start working on an NFT platform/app that specifically focuses on doing a couple of things I love. I won't post anything about it right now, as I don't want to ruin any surprises but also I don't want to fail you all if I don't manage to do it. Last thing I want to do is partially shill something that... just doesn't take off. I don't want to be another crypto statistic (R.I.P all the failed coins and projects. You are not missed).

Anyway, the NFT Store code appears to adhere to best practice. It uses the open zeppelin repository to satisfy HRC721 (ERC721) token standards and should be a good introduction to how NFT's work on the blockchain and how they are minted and stored in a way that can be later traded between users. Again, this is all completely focused on the Harmony protocol, so I'm going to experiment and try do some stuff I haven't seen thus far. 

The git code didn't compile and run perfectly based on the instructions in the readme, however after some tinkering I was able to just do the usual truffle compile, migrate and test! Onwards and upwards!