---
layout: post
title: "Day 15"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Open Zeppelin Wizardry

Today was the day I set myself a challenge. I wanted to write an ERC721 compliant smart contract with the intention of one day releasing my own NFT's. I am approaching this as an educational challenge rather than a business challenge as the true profit, to me, is the knowledge. If I can write a compliant token that ticks all the boxes and manage to release it into the wild, then in theory, I can do it for someone else and possibly even change for my time and skillset. This is still a long way off, but like all these tokens, shoot for the moon and land in the stars (or something like that?).

My first port of call was the [documentation](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/erc721). I went straight to Open Zeppelin and started reading their ERC721 standards and advise around developing these tokens. Following this documentation I did the classic move and went to Github and attempted to find some open source projects. A project I have followed since it's launch (but regretfully never aped in at the time) was the [CryptoPunks](https://github.com/larvalabs/cryptopunks) project. This code does not utilise Open Zeppelin contracts to follow standards, but I have a feeling this helped set the standard as the code itself appears to follow the standards contracts very closely. But anywhere, that isn't for me to say as it's purely guesswork by my brain.

Anyway, my ERC721 contract was likely going to be an amalgamation (clean and careful of course) of the Open Zeppelin standards contracts, my own code and some referenced logic from the CryptoPunks contract. The logic I plan to implement will include:

- Metadata (URI) ERC721 token
- Mintable (within a limited amount)
- Sales Offers (Sell/Buy)
- Auctions (Bid, Accept, Withdraw)
- Withdraw held funds

Across these features will likely be a range of functions, both public and private, which will help implement all the above functions. At this time I don't have a full design, or UML diagram (etc) but the idea is in my head and hopefully I can just coding away today and see how the progress goes.

### 3 Hours Later...

I have been failing miserably at implementing the logic across 2 different tokens: 

- Marketplace
- Token

For some reason (likely my restricted Solidity knowledge) my cross contract calls are acting horribly, failures are everywhere and it's quite clearly not going smoothly. I decided to take a step back and clean my code up into a single contract with all controlled logic here. The contract looks a little longer and bloated, but in theory it should remove any weird issues that I don't even know exist (or how they might exist) when doing contract to contract calls.

Introducing the Wizard (now the initial title makes sense, right?)...

I came across a stack overflow post that had someone half moaning and half cheering (sounds like my own post) about the Open Zeppelin Wizard which is hosted on the following URL: [https://wizard.openzeppelin.com/

The application basically let's you tick a few boxes, specify some custom requirements and hands you a ERC721 compliant token... yup, 3 hours of me failing miserably lead me to this glorious thing. I guess all things have a reason, every negative has a positive, blah blah. But seriously. This thing is awesome! I put my trust in it as it's Open Zeppelin, it is using the npm modules for inclusion AND it has ticky boxes. What more do you need?!

This gave me the perfect base skeleton for my token, allowing me to just focus on the additional features I want to implement from my CryptoPunks research!

I highly recommend you go check out the wizard. Even if you aren't wanting to write your own token, seeing a base skeleton which implements the minimum requirements for a compliant token is a very educational lesson for what some people are spending millions of dollars on! Mental, but awesome.