---
layout: post
title: "Day 27"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Finishing Up Our Inventory Function

As mentioned yesterday (day 26), the weekend quickly got busy and I was unable to code for as long as I had initially planned too. I posted some snippets of the newly added functionality but I had not ran any tests. To be honest, I hadn't even checked to make sure the code compiled.

First things first, let's make sure the code compiles and migrates nicely to the testnet:

```
bad@blockchain:~/Desktop/random_object$ truffle compile --all

Compiling your contracts...
===========================
✔ Fetching solc version list from solc-bin. Attempt #1
✔ Downloading compiler. Attempt #1.
> Compiling ./contracts/Migrations.sol
> Compiling ./contracts/SuperRareToken.sol
✔ Fetching solc version list from solc-bin. Attempt #1
> Artifacts written to /home/bad/Desktop/random_object/build/contracts
> Compiled successfully using:
   - solc: 0.8.6+commit.11564f7e.Emscripten.clang
```

Excellent. From the above snippet, I can see that the entire collection of contracts compiles nicely! Without showing the entire output of the migration, the following results were presented after successfully migrating:

```
bad@blockchain:~/Desktop/random_object$ truffle migrate --network testnet --reset

<snipped>

Summary
=======
> Total deployments:   2
> Final cost:          0.003349528 ETH
```

Now my contract is on the testnet, let's see if I can call the functions within the console and receive some of the expected values. Looking back at day 25, various examples of previously used functions can be seen to identify the owner of an item as well as their balance.

First, I get a reference to the contract and then mint the first object:

```
bad@ubuntu:~/Desktop/random_object$ truffle console --network testnet
truffle(testnet)> ro = await SuperRareToken.deployed()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> m = await ro.mint()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> m.logs[0].args.randomIndex.toString()
'85'
```

Now I know I have minted an object with the id of 85, I can confirm I indeed own that item with the ownerOf function:

```
truffle(testnet)> oo = await ro.ownerOf(85)
undefined
truffle(testnet)> oo
'0x3aea49553Ce2E478f1c0c5ACC304a84F5F4d1f98'
```

Perfect! The address shown above is the 'admin' wallet address. In this case, my address of my truffle deployer account. This isn't a perfect test for deploying and testing a large scale project as I would want to know that multiple user's can all exist and all mint their own objects, however in this case, the whole point of this small project was just to mint random objects and ensure they are assigned with persistence. This helps me prove that.

Now I have some evidence that I own a singular object, and I have my address. Let's try the newly implemented inventory function:

```
truffle(testnet)> inv = await ro.inventory(oo)
undefined
truffle(testnet)> inv
[ <BN: 55> ]
```

At first, this may look wrong as it appears to have returned an object ID of 55... but let's double check that. As the returned value is an array of BigNumbers (uint256's), I want to ensure they are the value I think it is. Converting them to a string gives me a quick visible result for easier confirmation:

```
truffle(testnet)> inv[0].toString()
'85'
```

Perfect! 85 was the value I was hoping for, and the ID of the object I own. Let's mint a few more tokens and ensure the inventory function does indeed return an array containing all of the tokens minted (and owned) by the target user:

```
truffle(testnet)> m = await ro.mint()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> m.logs[0].args.randomIndex.toString()
'21'
truffle(testnet)> m = await ro.mint()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> m.logs[0].args.randomIndex.toString()
'50'
truffle(testnet)> m = await ro.mint()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> m.logs[0].args.randomIndex.toString()
'47'
```

As can be seen above, I should now be able to see 4 different values returned by the inventory function (including the very first one I minted). Remember, the array will include the BigNumber representative of the value. This will be needed to be converted to a string to see the true decimal value I am expecting:

```
truffle(testnet)> inv = await ro.inventory(oo)
undefined
truffle(testnet)> inv
[ <BN: 15>, <BN: 2f>, <BN: 32>, <BN: 55> ]
```

 Looking good! We can see our first mint at the end, along with 3 other values - totaling a balance of 4. Our balance can also be confirmed with the balanceOf function:

```
truffle(testnet)> bal = await ro.balanceOf(oo)
undefined
truffle(testnet)> bal
<BN: 4>
```

As expected, the balance is 4. Note, it may look confusing at this time as I didn't need to convert this to string for the correct reading. This is because the BigNumber representation is shown in hexadecimal (base16). Hex counts from 0 to F, (15 values). When F is hit, the value wraps around back to 0 and you increment the value in front of it.  That's a terrible primer. If you are unfamiliar with hex - I'd go have a quick read, it's pretty simple and makes you wonder why we count in base10 (decimal) most of the time - but that's another story! ANYWAY...

If I convert all of the above from hex to decimal, I can see the expected results relative to the above outputs from the mint function logs:

```
15 => 10 (16) + 5 (5)		=> 21
2F => 20 (16 * 2) + 2 (2)   => 34
32 => 30 (16 * 3) + 2 (2)   => 50
55 => 50 (16 * 5) + 5 (5)   => 85
```

These match my expected values. Now let's just check and confirm in the console to ensure I understand how to math:

```
truffle(testnet)> inv[0].toString()
'21'
truffle(testnet)> inv[1].toString()
'47'
truffle(testnet)> inv[2].toString()
'50'
truffle(testnet)> inv[3].toString()
'85'
```

Perfecto! I have a working inventory function!

Repository: [https://github.com/BadAtBlockchain/random_object_contract](https://github.com/BadAtBlockchain/random_object_contract)

Commit Hash: 00170f89f223ed3166364ead2af95e03161ba7b8