---
layout: post
title: "Day 28"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Short But Sweet

Today is a day I need to dedicate to MY FIRST PAID PROJECT ON BLOCKCHAIN. Sorry, that was a bit loud. I'm super excited to have been approached and given the opportunity to work on something to do with blockchain, specifically Solidity stuff. I can't say who, or what, but I'm stoked - and the guys know it!

Anyway, with that said - today's post is just a short one but I wanted to quickly address something I hadn't covered yesterday, considering the contract code contains it. Yes, that's right, the tokenDataUrl() function.

It's a very simple function, it simply takes a token ID. Checks it's validity, and returns a string value from the struct. The following example snippet shows me minting an object, getting hold of the decimal (base10) token ID and calling the new function.

```
truffle(testnet)> m = await ro.mint()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> m.logs[0].args.randomIndex
<BN: 38>
truffle(testnet)> m.logs[0].args.randomIndex.toString()
'56'
truffle(testnet)> await ro.tokenDataUrl(56)
'https://some.url'
```

As can be seen, the URL is relatively boring and not very unique. However, picture this... each unique object has it's own unique data, correct? Now, for each one minted, that URL could point to anything. It could be metadata hosted on IPFS, it could be a picture of an NFT avatar hosted elsewhere. It could even be an easter egg pointing to [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)... sorry guys. But seriously, it could be anything the developer wants it to. What is important, is this data is held in the smart contract and cannot be changed (unless an admin only function allows it, but that might change the integrity and value of the token/project depending on it's use case).

I invite you to attempt to extend this basic project and attempt to give each token it's own unique URL. A simple, quick approach would be to have each URL append the token's ID to the end (remember your data types) ultimately resulting in a unique endpoint or file for each token (this is how an NFT avatar project would do it).