---
layout: post
title: "Day 14"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Modifiers

Today I discovered modifiers. At first I was just staring at these weird looking keyword/function hybrids that just appeared to work:

```javascript
function functioName() public onlyOwner returns(bool) {
	// only this owner can call this
}

function otherFunctionName(address _addr) private addressIsValid(_addr) {
	// do something if the address is valid
}
```

So I saw these and was just staring at them with a blank expression on my face. To me, it almost looking like it could be some form of callback or some in-line function/hook that gets called everytime to defined function is called. I guess this was a pretty accurate guess, and when reading in to them further... they turned out to be super simple. These are modifiers that restrict the function call altogether. These restrictions revolve around whether the code within the modifier passes all checks.

The best comparison I can think of off the top of my head is NodeJS middleware. Imagine you are working on a web application and you create a page that requires authentication. You would likely right some form of middleware function to do this, right?

```javascript
function isAuth(res, req, next) {
	// etc
	next();
}
```

If the express request is authenticated (passes implemented checks), then the next() callback is called. This sits in-between functions and calls, hence 'middleware'. Modifiers appear to work in a very similar method. So if you have developed API's, apps, etc, then these will be trivial for your usage too.

I don't know the technical surroundings about them, but I assume the gas usage is the same for a modifier as a normal function so be wary when implementing the logic. Ideally, keep them short and snappy for easy deployment and modularity across the project.

A perfect example of a common modifier would be the onlyOwner modifier identified in the [Ownable.sol](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/blob/master/contracts/access/Ownable.sol) smart contract from Open Zeppelin.

```javascript
modifier onlyOwner() {
	require(owner() == _msgSender(), "Ownable: caller is not the owner");
	_;
}
```

In the above snippet (taken from Ownable.sol), the modifier I mentioned can be seen. It is extremely simple. It just checks that the function caller/invoker is the owner held within the contracts state variable and continues execution flow if the require check passes. The following snippet shows the code utilised by the onlyOwner modifier.

```javascript
abstract contract Ownable is Context {
    address private _owner;
    
	// ... snipped
    
	function owner() public view virtual returns (address) {
        return _owner;
    }
```

A quick note about the modifier, and an important one I feel is the use of the weird looking line of code:

```
_;
```

In some languages, you see an underscore be used as a throwaway variable for a return value. For example, if Golang you can do the following in a loop to just ignore one of the iterative values:

```go
for _, v := range items {
	// _ would normally be the element/index of the , in this case we are just throwing it away
	// v is a reference to the actual item or value of that element
}
```

In the case of Solidity and modifiers, the underscore simply just means continue. The same as next() in NodeJS middleware. Referring back to the first snippet in the post (also shown below for easy reading) the contents of functionName() would only be called if the modifier passes:

```javascript
function functioName() public onlyOwner returns(bool) {
	// only this owner can call this
}
```

