---
layout: post
title: "Day 3"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Abstract Contracts vs Interfaces

Today I read up on inheritance, specifically how to create base classes in Solidity and how a new class would implement variables and functions from them. Turns out, to no major surprise, that this was relatively simple and similar to other programming languages.

The down side, is there are some differences between the two making better at certain tasks. The flip side to this, is that it is ultimately down to the programmer. In my case, I'm not working on a specific project or have a token in development that is targeting a production environment - or in the world of cryptocurrencies as I know it, the mainnet.

Before I start, a quick note about how I have interpreted contracts and interfaces. A contract is effectively a 'class' object that is often seen in other programming languages such as C++, C#, etc. When learning the following. Spotting this has given me a quick method of understanding contracts from a class perspective, with constructors, members variables (etc). Classes can inherit other classes as well as interfaces.

### Interfaces

A simple, quick point of reference for Solidity interfaces was Google which resulted in coming across [this](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/solidity/solidity_interfaces.htm) quick wealth of information. Pulling out the important bits for quick reference, we have the following points:

- An interface can't have function implementations within them.
- All functions within an interface can only be of type "external".
- Interfaces do not have a constructor.
- Interfaces can not have state variables.
- Interface can have enums**. The can be accessed using interface name dot notation.

** This probably isn't a perfect explanation, so check documentation if you're new. But an enum is effectively a block of integer values with human readable 'labels'. For example, if we think of a state machine for a made up token. We might have the following enum:

```
enum TokenState {
	"OWNED",
	"UNOWNED",
	"LOCKED"
}
```

This can then be used in something like a switch case or an if/else block of statements:

```
TokenState ts = TokenState.OWNED;

switch (ts) {
	case TokenState.OWNED:
		// do something
	break;
	
	case TokenState.UNOWNED:
		// do something
	break;
	
	case TokenState.LOCKED:
		// do something
	break;
}
```

Naturally, the above is not really language specific but the logic is pretty straight forward when we take these into account. The integer representation comes into play in a similar manner:

```
enum TokenState {
	"OWNED" = 0,
	"UNOWNED" = 1,
	"LOCKED" = 2
}
```

Again, the above is not language specific but this would allow casting between an integer and an enum value with logical ease. I have not used this in Solidity yet, but will update the post if there are specific differences compared to other languages.

### Abstract Contracts

An abstract contract is a contract that implements functions without an implementation (such as the function body). Abstract classes (in general programming) are used to assist in templating code bases. If we think of a simple class hierarchy which could be templated, we could think of the following games programming entity approach. Let's say every entity has a name, sprite (2d graphic) and a position in the world. We could use the following 'base class' that every entity inherits:

```
class Entity {
	String name;
	Vector2 position;
	Sprite img;
}
```

The programmer could then have an unlimited amount of unique entities that can each inherit this class and instantly have access to the variables. This prevents the need to repeat code all over the place. 

```
class ShopOwner : Entity {
	function DoSomething() {
		// we can access the base class 'Entity' variables directly
		this.name = "Shop Keeper Jim";
	}
}
```

Abstract contracts in Solidity appear to be similar with regards to implementing functions. I could create a contract and include a function called 'printName()' but not include a body. Any contract after this could inherit this abstract contract and write the function implementation (body) for the 'printName()' contract to fulfil the inheritance for compilation time. 

At this time I have not implemented any abstract contracts in my source code, but similar to the enum explanation above, I will alter my writings if and when I come across differences compared to other languages.

### Implementing an Abstract Contract and Interface

To attempt to understand what I have just been reading and attempted to write, I figured the best method was to just try implement a super simple contract that utilises an Interface (and then an abstract contract).

In order to test my new interface knowledge, I put together the following Solidity file:

```javascript
pragma solidity >=0.4.25 <0.7.0;

interface IToken {
    function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256);
    function burnPercentage(uint percentage) external returns (bool);
}

contract DumbToken is IToken {
    uint256 supply;

    constructor() public {
        supply = 10000;
    }

    function totalSupply() external view returns (uint256) {
        return supply;
    }

    function burnPercentage(uint percentage) external returns (bool) {
        // don't let us attempt to burn more than 100%
        require(percentage < 100, "Percentage to burn must be less than 100%");

        uint256 toBurn = supply / percentage;
        uint256 newSupply = supply - toBurn;

        supply = newSupply;
        return true;
    }
}
```

As can be seen above, I have created an IToken interface which contains 2 separate functions. This interface is then inherited by the DumbToken contract, which then makes use of the 2 external functions.

The functions are pretty self explanatory based on the names and have some very simple logic which can be tested directly within the console. I compiled** and deployed the contracts.

**There was 1 error within the contract, stating a mutability error between the interface function and the function implementation. This was due to the 'view' keyword existing within the DumbToken's implementation and NOT the interface. As we need to match the declared function exactly, this simply just needed to be adapted (good to know). For future reference, the 'view' keywords appears to be the same keyword as 'const' in other programming languages, but I don't believe this is just an alias for the 'const' keyword.

The following shows me using the contract's functions directly in the console to test the interface functions work correctly.

```bash
bc@ubuntu:~/Desktop/newbcoin$ truffle console --network testnet
truffle(testnet)> dumbToken = await DumbToken.deployed()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> dumbToken.address
'0x2ED3CD259F245f79790301B6E09ad4B0d9de097C'
truffle(testnet)> ts = await dumbToken.totalSupply()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> ts
BN {
  negative: 0,
  words: [ 10000, <1 empty item> ],
  length: 1,
  red: null
}
truffle(testnet)> dumb.burnPercentage(50)
<... snipped ...>
truffle(testnet)> ts = await dumbToken.totalSupply()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> ts
BN {
  negative: 0,
  words: [ 9800, <1 empty item> ],
  length: 1,
  red: null
}
```

As we can see above, the function calls seem to be working as intended however, there is obviously some form of logic error as 50% of 10000 is not 200. But here we are. Who ever said developers need to know math, right?

All in all, interface working, now to implement an abstract contract to get the same functionality (or similar).

As an attempt to gain the required understanding on an abstract contract which my DumbToken inherits, I made the simple contract below:

```javascript
contract DumberToken {
    string public name;
}
```

This was then inherited by our DumbToken during the contract declaration. The 'name' variable was then utilised by the constructor:

```javascript
contract DumbToken is IToken, DumberToken {
    uint supply;

    constructor() public {
        name = "Dumb Token!";
        supply = 10000;
    }
<... snipped ...>
```

In theory, the name variable would not exist if our DumbToken contract did not inherit the DumberToken contract. However, in this case, I should now have this variable available for use and can set it directly. I compiled once again, and deployed to the testnet.

```bash
bc@ubuntu:~/Desktop/newbcoin$ truffle console --network testnet
truffle(testnet)> dumb = await DumbToken.deployed()
undefined
truffle(testnet)> dumb.address
'0x25b5A13D79A1C2ac1194489B06711Ac515085f6f'
truffle(testnet)> dumb.name()
'Dumb Token!'
```

As can be seen in the snippet above, the public 'name' variable was accessible via the 'name()' function and we received our variable's string value.

Basic use of interfaces and abstract/base contracts achieved and can be seen [here](https://github.com/BadAtBlockchain/MetaCoin-goes-to-Harmony/blob/main/contracts/DumbToken.sol)!

Commit hash: 209fc25fdfb68873d71128c8081c887437dffc57