---
layout: post
title: "Welcome!"
author: "Bad"
tags: misc
---

### Welcome one and all

Hi there, and welcome to a newbies world.

I started dabbling and trading cryptocurrency in 2017. I bought before the massive rise, watched my portfolio of tokens blow up at peak, didn't sell as I was a greedy underpaid developer, and held on through the devastating dip. January this year, I picked it back up. Recovered all my wallets and started trading and investing in new technology again.

It has not reached that time where I want to scratch the itch and figure out exactly (ish) how all this blockchain tech works, primarily the world of Smart Contracts.

For years I have noticed people doing a Twitter thing called #100daysofcode, so I figured I would jump on the band wagon and learn Solidity from scratch. I aim to do an hour(+) each day after my day job and document all my progress. This documentation will range from posts here, tweets and code hosted on Github.

If you (the reader) has worked with Solidity before or dabbled in Blockchain dev, please feel free to highlight errors or derps as I post them. I'm hungry to learn and will likely pick up some bad habits as all of this will be self taught through trial, error and failure.

Final note, almost every tutorial I have come across regarding Solidity is all Ethereum based. I have recently fallen in love with Harmony, and will aim to get all my projects working on the Harmony testnet with the aim of deploying a legitimate project on the Harmony mainnet. If you haven't checked out Harmony, go do it!