---
layout: post
title: "Day 25"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Adding More Functionality 

Continuing on the same contract as yesterday (Day 24), I wanted to add some more functionality and give it's user's (or Dapp) some more publicly exposed methods to gather contract information and improve the overall 'experience'. For the sake of this project, I won't be using the [ERC721 standard from Open Zeppelin](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/4.x/), however if this were ever to see the production world - I would port it over, 100%.

If you would like to follow along or implement these features yourself, please feel free to pull yesterday's code from [here](https://github.com/BadAtBlockchain/random_object_contract). By now the Git repo wouldd have updated, so please pull commit [e3a52969f159163ed10aae300ed24474d807a752](https://github.com/BadAtBlockchain/random_object_contract/tree/7b9282256c76449e519b4dd78175a99d10a58c96).

Anyway... let's go over the new exposed functions I had added.

**totalAvailable()**

As the contract already has a public state variable, "supply" to give the user an indication of the hard limit of tokens available, another function would be handy for Dapp interfaces or curious users to help state how many tokens are still available to be minted. To do this, I implemented the following, extremely complex, math heavy, gas expensive function:

```javascript
function totalAvailable() public view returns (uint8) {
    return supply - totalMinted;
}
```

As can be seen above, I am obviously just joking. To get the available tokens remaining, we can just find the difference between the supply and the amount of tokens already minted, returning the value.

**ownerOf()**

All great, top quality contracts have a function that tells the user who owns which token/NFT. I mean, after all, what good is owning a $13 million dollar punk if you can't prove ownership, right? Super simple function, let's check out the source:

```javascript
function ownerOf(uint _tokenId) public view returns (address){
    // we make sure it's less than supply, as our tokenID's start at 0 in this project
    // to start from one, we must do "owners[selection+1] = msg.sender" in the mint function
    require(_tokenId < supply, "token must be less than supply (n-1)");
    require(owners[_tokenId] != address(0), "token is not owned by anyone yet");

    return owners[_tokenId];
}
```

Quick note: The comments above were mainly for me, but will assist with your debugging if numbers look odd. In my case, everything starts from 0. 

The function has two require statements for sanity checks, one makes sure the token ID is a legal token, and the second makes sure the user is trying to check a token that is owned by a user (has been minted already).

It then simply returns the address related to that token ID from the map. The function can be set with the mutability 'view' keyword. 

**balanceOf**

This function was a little, trickier(?) to implement. Not so much because of the logic required, that's fairly straight forward. I was fighting all urges to attempt to perform forms of optimisation or fall back on the ERC721 enumerable contract to do it for me. The function below may have some elements of overkill, but as previously discussed in one of my posts (and in the CryptoZombies tutorials by Loom Network), looping through an array within a function scope is often cheaper than other forms of storage/state manipulation. My implementation of balanceOf can be seen below:

```javascript
function balanceOf(address _address) public view returns (uint8) {
	require(_address != address(0), "Cannot check balance of 0x0");

	uint8 total = 0;

	for (uint8 i = 0; i < supply; i++) {
		if (owners[i] != address(0)) {
			if (owners[i] == _address) {
				total++;
			}
		}
	}

	return total;
}
```

First I make sure the user is not checking the balance of the 0x0 address. If this passes, I loop through every possible token ID relative to the max supply count (remember, my code starts at 0 for token ID's). For each possible token ID, I check if the current mapped owner is 0. If it isn't I check if the owner is the address passed in to the function. If this matches, increment the total and move on.

Note, this function is accessible and callable by anyone. There are no restrictions around this, and any sender can query any target user's balance.

**Manual Testing in the Console**

Once implemented, the new additions compiled nicely and were migrated to the testnet. Once there, I fired up the console:

```
truffle console --network testnet
```

And started testing away. First I got my instance to the deployed token:

```
ro = await SuperRareToken.deployed()
```

Minted 2 tokens using:

```
m = await ro.mint()
```

Querying one of the 2 for emitted events:

```
m.logs[0].args;
```

 I received this randomIndex from the event:

```
// ...snipped...

randomIndex: BN {
    negative: 0,
    words: [ 93, <1 empty item> ],
    length: 1,
    red: null
}
```

Now I knew one of the 2 token ID's I had minted, I could use my new functions to check the logic worked correctly:

```
truffle(testnet)> oo = await ro.ownerOf(93)
undefined
truffle(testnet)> oo
'0x3aea49553Ce2E478f1c0c5ACC304a84F5F4d1f98'
truffle(testnet)> bal = await ro.balanceOf(oo)
undefined
truffle(testnet)> bal
BN { negative: 0, words: [ 2, <1 empty item> ], length: 1, red: null }
truffle(testnet)> await ro.totalAvailable()
BN { negative: 0, words: [ 98, <1 empty item> ], length: 1, red: null }
```

As can be seen above, my ownerOf function returned a valid address for token ID "93" (tick). My balanceOf function returned a value of 2 for the same address as the ownerOf token 93 (tick), and finally, the totalAvailable function gave my a value of 98, the math of 100 - 2 checks out (tick)!

There we have it, some extra functionality without falling back on the pre-written ERC721 standards contracts. Again, if this were going into the mainnet, I would 100% be using Open Zeppelin, but this is all a learning curve and a fun experience!

