---
layout: post
title: "Day 26"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

### Adding Even More!

This trend has become a bit repetitive. I find myself adding additional functionality to the smart contract I started on Day 24. Although the code written isn't extremely fancy and innovative, what is great is that it's all being done off the top of my head. No stack overflow (what?), rarely checking documentation (huh?) and it's all compiling first time (pretty much)! So - in terms of tracking personal progress, I'm really happy!

Yesterday I added a few new functions to the contract to give it a better experience as an outside user. If you haven't checked out the post or pulled the latest code, you may want to before following along here. But either way, knowledge is power - as long as you start somewhere, then it's better progress than before (or some other saying that makes sense)!

Due to unforeseen weekend circumstances, I had to cut today short. The following code snippets were added to the contract project but I did not have time to test and debug any issues. Atleast this adds a task for tomorrow.

As can be seen below, I implemented a function to loop through all the tokens in the contract, and accumulate a local array of token ID's that were owned by the address. The loop only occurs if the targets balance actually has something in there (otherwise it's a waste of computational power,  ofcourse). The return value is an array of ID's, and anyone is able to use this function to view anyone's inventory.

```javascript
function inventory(address _address) public view returns (uint8[] memory) {
    require(_address != address(0), "Cannot get inventory of 0x0");
        
    uint8 bal = _balanceOf(_address);
    uint8[] memory tokens = new uint8[](bal);

    if (bal > 0) {
        uint8 ticker = 0;

        // seems weird to loop here again although we already did in _balanceOf, change?
        for (uint8 i = 0; i < supply; i++) {
            if (owners[i] == _address) {
                tokens[ticker] = i;
                ticker++;
            }
        }
        return tokens;
    } else {
        return tokens;
    }
}
```

The second function added within my coding time was a simple getter for the target token URL data. Naturally, this could return any specific value or even a collection of values from the target struct, but in this case, it just returns a string for future use by the Dapp (etc).

```javascript
function tokenDataUrl(uint _tokenId) public view returns (string memory) {
    require(_tokenId < supply, "Token is not with mintable range");
    require(owners[_tokenId] != address(0), "Token has not been minted");

    return allTokens[_tokenId].URL;
}
```

