---
layout: post
title: "Day 7"
author: "Bad"
tags: 100daysofcode
---

#### Different, But Progress!

Today has been a busy day followed by a headache from the heat. For that reason I haven't spent much time working on any of my own code. To maintain the #100daysofcode progression, I have been studying a new DEX that launched yesterday called [LootSwap](https://lootswap.finance/). It is a fork of [ViperSwap](https://viperswap.one/#/swap) but with a heavy focus on gamification.

I'm a sucker for platforms that have a primary focus mixed with gamified elements and mechanics, I love it!. I dived at Axie as soon as I saw that, had a good time playing it and turned a nice profit from some of the  NFTs I gathered along the way. I'm no financial advisor and my user is BadAtBlockchain, so take this with a pinch of salt... but LootSwap feels really nice! I've got my fingers crossed for the team and their progress.

In true dev/hacker fashion. The first thing I did was grab as much information about it as possible. Google, Telegram, Whitepaper and of course their [Github](https://github.com/LootSwap) repository.

I have been reading through their smart contracts this evening and attempting to notate them as I go. Although this isn't strictly coding, I have been documenting my progression and plan to do some analysis as a post over the next few days. Their yield farming, known as quests on the platform, is one of my primary focuses of interest and I plan to dig in there and attempt to break it down as much as I can do ultimately assist in building my own one day!

All in all, todays code progression was null. But knowledge is still growing and Solidity is getting easier to read. So I take that as a major win!